#MEMORANDUM

#### TO: ORIE 4741 staff
#### FROM: Yue Sun, Zhi Ting(Vincent) Chen, Yue Shi, En-Po(Eric) Tsai
#### DATE: Sept 22, 2016
#### SUBJECT: ORIE4741 Airbnb Project Proposal



  Since its inception, Airbnb has accelerated the growth of the sharing economy in helping homeowners and travellers to buy and sell short-term accommodation around the world. While the popularity of Airbnb’s convenient platform has made the allocation of housing resources exponentially efficient, there is massive value in the data generated by the transactions worth studying from. 

  Data from each listing on Airbnb often contains the number of transactions per year, the price, and rating of guest, etc. In this project, we aim to to learn how listings in different areas of the same city(i.e. New York) have different prices, their correlation with house prices, crime rates, and their influence on the price of the listing. Specifically, we would like to answer the following question:
  
##Why is the problem important?
Airbnb is one of the most successful online vacation property renting website. It provides renters a tool to contact with hosts and book rooms in the local family. However, there are many popular alternative websites, such as HomeAway. It is important for Airbnb to retain hosts, as they are the most valuable resources to the company.If Airbnb can give a host recommendation when he sets the listing price,  the company increases the probability of his room being rented. By improving hosts’ satisfactory, host loyalty is then built. 
It is worthwhile to put time and investment into such kind of project, which helps improving host loyalty and the competitiveness of the company.

##Why do you think the dataset will allow you to (begin to) answer the question?
To provide price recommendation to the Airbnb host, we aim to build a prediction model which provide a price interval to the host based on the data from host’s listing. The Airbnb data contains listings in major cities around the world, and has useful values like price, rating, availability, the room space and capacity, listing location, guests review counts and review scores, which can be used as special features that influence the house pricing. Specifically, we could start to build the price prediction model by the following steps:
Give exploratory data analysis. Filter out listing price from the dataset. An informative listing price will lead to more guest review counts and higher review scores. Choose these parts of the data to build the model.
Fit a model to predict listing price based on the basic information of the room and its host and review rating, calculated from its review counts and review score. 
When predicting for a new room, we calculate the recommended listing prices at different review rating. These recommended listing prices will be further combined into a recommended price interval.

Other than the data mentioned above, there are large amounts of potential features in Airbnb data set we have not explored yet. On the other hand, we can also obtain more comprehensive information through other accessible data sets, such as Zillow, Yelp, and the data set form various other sources, for example, NY state open data and Kaggle. Zillow contains the house value data and rental data in different regions. They are the fundamental factors that determine the price of the house. Also, reviews and the prices of hotels on Yelp are a great help when analyzing whether the price provided by the house owner matches the customer’s expectation.
